README.md, before:

# Simple Collision 2D
*A single-file 2D collision library written in C.*

The goal with this library is to create a straightforward library that checks for collisions and calculates overlaps for a wide variety of 2 dimensional shapes and lines (and doesn't try to do anything else). It should be clear from the code and the comments what each function is doing. There are no dependencies aside from `math.h`.

## Using the Library

`SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_IMPLEMENTATION` should be defined in **one** C/C++ source file before including this header. It can then be included in any other source file that references its functions like a standard header.

The `sc2d` functions all follow a similar structure and all return `true` if a collision has occurred.

```c
bool sc2d_check_shape1_shape2(
	[in]  float p1x, 
	[in]  float p1y, 
	[in]  float shape1_dimensions ... ,
	[in]  float p2x,
	[in]  float p2y,
	[in]  float shape2_dimensions ... ,
	[out] float *overlap_x,
	[out] float *overlap_y,
)
```

| Argument 												| Description 														|
|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| p1x, p1y 												| Position of first shape 								 			|
| <br>width, height<br>radius<br>*vertices, vert_count 	| **Dimensions of first shape:**<br>Rectangle<br>Circle<br>Polygon 	|
| p2x, p2y 												| Position of second shape 								 			|
| <br>width, height<br>radius<br>*vertices, vert_count 	| **Dimensions of second shape:**<br>Rectangle<br>Circle<br>Polygon	|
| overlap_x, overlap_y 									| Value of shortest overlap (or intersection)**  					|

## Simple Collision Resolution

The `overlap` vector is always relative to the first shape in the argument list. Therefore, for static resolution it should be **subtracted** from the position of `shape1` and/or **added** to position `shape2` to push the shapes apart.

```c check_circles Resolution
if (sc2d_check_circles(p1.x, p1.y, r1, p2.x, p2.y, r2, &overlap.x, &overlap.y)) {
	p1.x -= overlap.x / 2.0f;
	p1.y -= overlap.y / 2.0f;

	p2.x += overlap.x / 2.0f;
	p2.y += overlap.y / 2.0f;
}
```

## Custom Vector2

By default, the polygon collision functions `sc2d_check_poly2d` and `sc2d_check_point_poly2d` assume vertices are defined as `float` x/y pairs. To use these functions with a different type, you can define a custom `sc2d_v2` struct type with members `x` and `y` before the implementation as follows:

```c Custom Vector Definition
#ifndef SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_VECTOR2
typedef Vector3 sc2d_v2;
#define SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_VECTOR2
#endif

#define SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_IMPLEMENTATION
#include "sc2d.h"
```

The demo project uses `Vector3` in this way (z is ignored) to demonstrate this. This may or may not be a good idea.

## Building the Demo

The included demo program currently uses [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib) version 4.0.0 or later, but doesn't make extensive use of its features. Set `sc2d_RAYLIB_DIR` in `src/demo/CMakeLists.txt` to a raylib source directory on your machine.

Also included is a build/run configuration for Windows.

```
config.bat
build.bat
run.bat
```

This assumes that you have MinGW and [Ninja](https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja) installed.

Commit message:

macros for math.h func replacements

README.md, after:

# Simple Collision 2D
*A single-file 2D collision library written in C.*

The goal with this library is to create a straightforward library that checks for collisions and calculates overlaps for a wide variety of 2 dimensional shapes and lines (and doesn't try to do anything else).
It should be clear from the code and the comments what each function is doing.

## Using the Library

`SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_IMPLEMENTATION` should be defined in **one** C/C++ source file before including this header. It can then be included in any other source file that references its functions like a standard header.

The `sc2d` functions all follow a similar structure and all return `true` if a collision has occurred.

```c
bool sc2d_check_shape1_shape2(
	[in]  float p1x, 
	[in]  float p1y, 
	[in]  float shape1_dimensions ... ,
	[in]  float p2x,
	[in]  float p2y,
	[in]  float shape2_dimensions ... ,
	[out] float *overlap_x,
	[out] float *overlap_y,
)
```

| Argument 												| Description 														|
|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| p1x, p1y 												| Position of first shape 								 			|
| <br>width, height<br>radius<br>*vertices, vert_count 	| **Dimensions of first shape:**<br>Rectangle<br>Circle<br>Polygon 	|
| p2x, p2y 												| Position of second shape 								 			|
| <br>width, height<br>radius<br>*vertices, vert_count 	| **Dimensions of second shape:**<br>Rectangle<br>Circle<br>Polygon	|
| overlap_x, overlap_y 									| Value of shortest overlap (or intersection)**  					|

## Dependencies
There are no dependencies aside from `math.h` by default.
To eliminate this, define your own replacements before including the implementation code.

```c
#define sc2d_hypotf hypotf
#define sc2d_fabsf fabsf
#define sc2d_min fminf
#define sc2d_max fmaxf
#define sc2d_atan2 atan2

#define SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_IMPLEMENTATION
#include "sc2d.h"
```

## Static Collision Resolution

The `overlap` vector is always relative to the first shape in the argument list. Therefore, for static resolution it should be **subtracted** from the position of `shape1` and/or **added** to position `shape2` to push the shapes apart.

```c check_circles Resolution
if (sc2d_check_circles(p1.x, p1.y, r1, p2.x, p2.y, r2, &overlap.x, &overlap.y)) {
	p1.x -= overlap.x / 2.0f;
	p1.y -= overlap.y / 2.0f;

	p2.x += overlap.x / 2.0f;
	p2.y += overlap.y / 2.0f;
}
```

## Custom Vector2

By default, the polygon collision functions `sc2d_check_poly2d` and `sc2d_check_point_poly2d` assume vertices are defined as `float` x/y pairs. To use these functions with a different type, you can define a custom `sc2d_v2` struct type with members `x` and `y` before the implementation as follows:

```c Custom Vector Definition
#ifndef SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_VECTOR2
typedef Vector3 sc2d_v2;
#define SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_VECTOR2
#endif

#define SIMPLE_COLLISION_2D_IMPLEMENTATION
#include "sc2d.h"
```

The demo project uses `Vector3` in this way (z is ignored) to demonstrate this. This may or may not be a good idea.

## Building the Demo

The included demo program currently uses [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib) version 4.0.0 or later, but doesn't make extensive use of its features. Set `sc2d_RAYLIB_DIR` in `src/demo/CMakeLists.txt` to a raylib source directory on your machine.

Also included is a build/run configuration for Windows.

```
config.bat
build.bat
run.bat
```

This assumes that you have MinGW and [Ninja](https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja) installed.
